Overview

The term "Engineer-in-Training" defines a person certified by the State of Texas as one who has met the following requirements:

A graduate of an engineering program or related science curriculum approved by the Board. See "Transcript" below.
Passed the National Council of Examiners for Engineering and Surveying (NCEES) eight-hour Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) Examination.
Applied using the correct TBPE EIT form and paid $15.
Upon receipt of your EIT application/fee and official college transcript/diploma reflecting the date your degree was conferred, and evaluation (if applicable) you will be issued a Texas EIT certificate. If you are a student and have passed the FE examination, please do not apply for your EIT certificate until your degree has been CONFERRED by your university.

Processing time for the Texas EIT varies depending on agency workload and completeness of the application. From receipt to issuance of a certificate may take up to 8 weeks. We ask for your patience during periods of increased application submittals. Once you have the Texas Engineer in Train (EIT) certificate, you are approved to register to take the Principles and Practice Of Engineering (PE) exam.
EIT Certification Renewal

A Texas EIT certificate expires eight years from the date of issuance and may be renewed. Once you have renewed your Texas EIT, you may register to take the PE exam. Engineer-in-Training Certification Renewal Form

Path to the Professional Engineer (P.E.) License

The Engineer-in-Training certification does not entitle an individual to practice as a professional engineer.
An EIT certificate is not required to apply for a professional engineer license in Texas.
You will not be able to receive your Texas P.E. license until after you complete the required engineering experience. See the Decoupling of PE Exam and Experience Requirement Page.

Refer to the following pages for further information about becoming a P.E.
Licensing Overview
Frequently Asked Questions
This should be Transcript the end (s)

An official transcript verifying that an acceptable degree was conferred is required before the EIT certificate can be issued. Contact the university where you earned your engineering or related science degree. There may be a fee associated with the request, so we suggest you contact the university to inquire about possible fees before mailing the form. If your Bachelor's degree is of a curriculum that is not approved by the Board under ยง131.91, a complete evaluation will need to be provided with your application. (Click here for Foreign Credential Evaluation Services) Do not mail a transcript request form/fee to the Board office. Documents submitted written in a language other than English must be accompanied by an English translation.

Paper Forms pdf icon

A PDF Application Form is available as an alternative to the online application but it does require payment by check or money order which will cause a delay for payment processing.

Additional forms are available through this link to renew an existing EIT certification, change the contact information for an EIT, request a duplicate certificate or a verfication form for out of state EIT applicants.

Out of State FE Exam Verification - Reciprocity

Individuals who have taken and passed the FE examination in another state or who hold an Engineer-in-Training certification in another state may apply for their EIT status in Texas. In addition to the form and transcript requirements above, you must provide a verification of exam results.

Mail the Verification Form pdf icon to the appropriate state board so that they can verify your original EIT status and/or passage of the Fundamentals of Engineering Examination. Please be advised that some Boards charge a fee for processing the Verification Form, so we suggest you contact that Board's office to inquire about possible fees before mailing the form.